# Lung-Cancer-Detection
The deadliest and most life-threatening disease in this era is cancer and lung cancer is the most common cancer in men and second most common in women. The mortality rate of lung cancer can be decreased by early-stage detection of the disease and by using accurate treatment. One of the most effective imaging techniques used for detecting lung cancer is a computerized tomography (CT) scan-based image. Recently, deep learning (DL) algorithms, specifically convolutional neural networks (CNNs), have achieved extraordinary results in many applications including the classification of diseases. In this study, the problem of early detection of lung cancer from CT scan images using CNN framework is considered. Three different models namely CNN, AlexNet, and ZFNet are analyzed. The 'Chest CT-scan images dataset' \cite{Dataset} is considered for the study. For the performance analysis of the considered models, metrics of accuracy, loss, and Area under curve (AUC) are used. From the performance analysis, it is observed that CNN outperformed other models (AlexNet and ZFNet) and was shown to be promising compared to traditional methods. 

The proposed CNN model has the highest accuracy of 99.84\% and also has the minimum training loss which indicates the model's performance comparing to the AlexNet and ZFNet models.
Similarly, we have observed that our proposed CNN model has the highest validation accuracy of 84.72\% but at the same time, the validation loss is very high compared to the other models which is a limitation of our proposed model.
In the comparison of testing accuracy and loss, we observe that the proposed model has the 2nd highest testing accuracy but very low testing loss compared to the other two models.
